Welcome back in this lecture we'll be showing you how to create scatter plots with plots the scatter
plots allow the comparison of two variables for a set of data.
Here we have an example scatterplot where one variable is on the y axis and another variable is on the
x axis and where those two variables end up meeting.
We have a little point and that's our scatterplot Now depending on the trend that the scatter points
we can actually interpret some sort of correlation in our particular case here for this image.
It doesn't seem like these two variables on the x axis and the y axis have any sort of correlation but
you can imagine that if the points happen to go up on the y axis as the value of X got larger then we
could see maybe there's some correlation there.
Who would say that's positive correlation.
If as one variable goes up the other variable also tends to increase.
So we're going to do now is play around a little more scatter plots with plots.
So let's jump to our text editor and get started.
OK so here we have my PI script I kept the name basic that PI here an important number pi as well as
plotted the off line and plotted thought graph objects as go.
We're going to do first is actually create some random data.
Now to make sure your random data is the same as mine.
Well we're going to do is say P random seat and then we're going to set the seed to 42.
This actual number choice is arbitrary as long as your number matches up and you're consistent with
it.
You'll generate the same random data each time.
So to make sure that your random data is the same as mine we'll go ahead and provide the seed value
of 42.
Again no real reason for the number 42 besides just a reference to Hitchhiker's Guide.
If you're familiar with that but the actual number itself has no real meaning.
It just needs to be consistent.
We're going to do say a random x and we'll say that's equal to any random Rand I.A..
So remember that's random integer and we'll say from 1 to 101.
Give me 100 random integers.
And then we'll create a variable called random Y which is going to be basically the exact same thing
we'll say random Rand Diante from one up to but not including 101 given 100 random integers.
OK.
So that's going to going to go ahead and be our data.
Now all you want to do is plot our data and plot tends to follow a particular syntax where they end
up sticking the plot inside of a variable called data.
And then they pass that data variable into a plot call.
So keep in mind the syntax is a little strange at first because it has to do some nesting of a plot
inside of a list.
And then you put that inside of another plot call.
So just be patient with this and eventually you kind of catch on to plotless syntax.
So going to say data and we're going to start off with an empty list and inside of this list we're going
to go dots and then we're going to call scatter off this so you can see right now off of go off of these
graph objects.
I can see lots of different options of the different graphs that can do such as line scatter.
Eventually you'll see a box or bar and right now we're just going to call scatter.
So the main idea being the off of this go object you'll be calling specific plot types and then each
of these is going to take in particular arguments into this function call.
So we'll say x is equal to that random x array for scatter the scatter also needs a Y value.
So I'll say that's equal to random Y and then we're also going to define.
Here is a mode and we'll say that the mode is equal to markers and we'll see why we do that.
Later on.
But basically that allows us to specify that want little marker points for us scatterplot.
OK.
So that's all we need for our data.
And then we're going to do now is called p y o plot and then we pass in our data and with something
else we could do is if you don't want the file name that is automatic This temp Dasch plot.
HVM L Well you could do is say file name as an argument here.
By default it's temp.
Plot that h tim l the recall.
This is going to overwrite any other HTL files with the same name.
So what you could do is maybe call this something like scatter the HTL.
So I'm going to save that.
Let's go ahead and run this and then explore in our browser.
Again this should automatically open up in your browser but maybe if you have a firewall or something
you will go ahead and just double click on that scatter HTL yourself.
So bring over this scatter e-mail here.
I can see that as I begin to hover over these points.
I can see the actual point 62 here and I can see the value that corresponds to its x axis and then it
can zoom in.
And here we have a very basic scatterplot and the points are actually pretty small as you can see here.
So we'll deal with that later on.
But that's a very basic scatterplot.
Now we're going to do is if we notice that scatterplot didn't actually have any labels on the x axis
or the y axis.
So let's see how we can add in label such as a Title X axis and a Y axis and also a hover mode.
And the government is going to define what information is actually shown to the user when they hover
over a particular point.
So we're going to make a little more room here and we have our data.
We're also going to do now is define what's known as a lay out.
So as you may have guessed data is going to be referencing the actual data.
In this case the actual plot that's being passed and the plot command and then we have a layout variable
and that's going to be equal to go Dot lay out.
And this is where we're going to define things such as what the title is going to be what the access
titles are going to be and what's going to happen when you hover over a point.
Keep in mind that here the syntax again it's going to be a little strange at first.
So you just can't you're going to have to be patient with it as you begin to learn the syntax of Partly.
So first off in our layout we're going to pass on a title and this is whatever you want.
The title on top of the plot to be so you can see here it's Heidel hello first plot.
So that's one thing we're going to pass in there we're also going to pasan let's say a parameter for
x axis and this is what you want the x axis to be called.
Now it's a little strange or funny here is that you pass this in as a dictionary.
So we're going to pass and here is title and then whatever you want the title of the x axis to be.
So my x axis.
Now you'll notice that I-PASS in a dictionary like this with the curly braces and then a key and a value
pair something you see happen a lot in the plot the documentation is they tend to really like passing
in dictionaries with the actual DCT function call.
So I'm going to show you what that would look like for the y axis.
So we're going to see a y axis.
It follows the same sort of syntax you pass in a dictionary here.
But what the platies documentation really likes to do is instead of passing in a dictionary of curly
braces what they like to do is passen dct and then when you call dct and you want key value pairs you
actually create the parameter for the key and then set equal to the parameter for the value.
So my a y axis.
So keep in mind that both of these approaches as far as passing in a dictionary are totally OK.
What I don't want you to get confused by is when you go visit the documentation you'll notice that plotless
documentation in general likes to make a lot of these sort of dictionary calls instead of constructing
a dictionary with curly braces.
And I believe the reason for that is because it's just it's a little clear when you see the equal signs
you can see hate titles equal to this instead of maybe the key value pair again.
This is where your personal preference is going to come into play as far as what sort of approach you
like for constructing your dictionaries whether you like the curly braces approach or the actually calling
the dictionary function.
Again it's up to you which of these you like and then finally in our last hour or a fourth argument
is going to be hover mode and we're going to hover mode equal to the string closest.
So what this is going to do it's going to allow us to handle multiple points landing on the same vertical
and just like we passed in data here.
What we're going to do now is instead of passing and data will pass in Fig and we're going to the fine
fig as go figure.
And then you're going to pass in data equal to data and lay out equal to LEO.
So we're going to save this.
And before we actually run it let's quickly review everything we just did.
I know we just threw a lot at you.
So what we've done so far is created a data variable and a layout variable the data variable.
It's a list that's going to contain the actual plot from that go plot type call.
And each particular plot type call is going to have different parameters.
A lot of them are going to have X equals y equals and then some sort of emote argument.
But here we can see scatter we're setting what the X data is what the White data is and what mode it's
in.
And in just a little bit we're also going to explore how to edit the marker size and colors but that's
our data variable.
Someone keep in mind it's a list.
When I was first learning Clottey always forget to set it as a list and then end up getting some error.
So keep that in mind as you're working with plot Lee and then we create this layout variable and the
layout variable.
Notice this one's not a list.
Which is a little confusing at first.
The Here we called Go the layout and then we pass an A title an x axis a y axis and a hover mode.
Keep in mind this x axis and y axis.
Since they can take in multiple arguments beyond just title if you want to actually pass something in
the past and as a dictionary so you can either do that with a dictionary that looks like this of curly
braces or with the function call.
And when we're actually going to be editing the marker color and size I think you'll begin to notice
why people when they're were a partly really like this use of the function call instead of the curly
braces.
But right now let's make sure we saved this.
We've passed data and layout into a Go figure object.
And then we can pass that figure object into a plot call.
And now I'm going to call Python basic the PI here or whatever you happen to call that Python scripts.
And now if I bring in my browser you'll notice I have the title.
Hello first plot.
And I have the my a y axis and my x axis so that layout command has allowed us to edit the x axis and
the y axis titles as well as the title of the plot itself.
Now we saw the issue where these points are pretty small but Suffield is want to hover over them.
I now get to see both coordinates both the x coordinate and the white coordinate.
That's what's happening due to this hover mode closest call.
OK so finally I want to deal with the issue of the points being really small and hard to see.
So to do that we can actually pass and more information into this scatter call and what we're going
to do is as another argument inside of the scatter call it's making some more lines here.
We have our x or y our mode and then what I'm going to add now is a marker our event into this scatter
call and this marker argument can take in a dictionary of key value pairs.
That's going to define what the markers look like.
And this is why partly documentation in general really prefers calling a dictionary like this.
And you can see why right now because we're going to have several parameters to pass in.
And sometimes it just makes more sense as far as seeing the layout of your code to do one parameter
per line.
So it looks quite nice when you do a dictionary call like this so often you'll see that the documentation
is in a call dictionary and that expand it like this.
And then they're going to tab over and start doing the key value pairs will say size is equal to 12
or you know whatever size we want and that you can define a color as well and a color.
It's a G B code and you can also do hex codes here we'll do our job.
And here this just a red green and blue values so I'll say R.G..
And here it is kind of choosing some grand the values.
So I don't know what 5:3.
And then as another parameter we're going to use symbol as a possible dictionary parameter key value
pair.
And here you can pass in a string parameter for various shapes and there's a link in the notes to the
documentation for scatterplot.
You can get an idea of what types of parameters what types of strings can pass and here.
For now I'll pass and Pentagon since I know that's an option.
And then finally what we can do is also say line and line itself takes in a dictionary call.
So what we're going to do here is just say width of two.
So that's the line outside of the marker.
So hopefully now you can see why.
Probably documentation likes doing this sort of dictionary call as far as understanding everything and
being able to read easily what the size of the marker is going to be using a dictionary called like
this instead of a dictionary call like this with the curly braces makes it a little easier to see over
multiple lines.
Again this is technically a personal call if you prefer doing dictionaries of curly braces.
That's totally up to you.
Just keep that in mind when you're exploring the plot the documentation.
They're really going to heavily favor the sort of the call.
OK so let's save this and rerun Python basically up-I enter.
Looks like an invalid syntax summersaults make sure I didn't forget something color R.G..
OK let's double check.
This looks like a for a comma right after size.
So let's save that and it's quick now.
If you ever get some sort of typo like that here and you still can't figure it out go ahead and make
sure you read our notes directly.
All the notes provided for you don't have any typos in them so let's try this again.
I on base that PI enter an.
Boom.
Now I'm going to bring over my scatter HTL and I can see there are little Pentagons and they're the
color green or whatever.
RG by color you chose and then they also have a line around them and that line with can be edited to
be really thick or really thin and you can also do things like edit that lines color and more features
of that line so you can check of that documentation for scatter.
It's linked to you in the notes and you can check that out as far as the various parameters you can
do here.
But hopefully now I have an idea of how to create a scatterplot with politely and we introduce new ideas
here of data and layout so keep that in mind as well.
As we learn about more and more plots the syntax of setting up your data and setting up your layout
it's going to feel more and more familiar as you go on.
So let's do a really quick review of everything we just learned so far and to bring over our notes again.
So we did so far is we created some random data that shouldn't have been new to you.
But what we did do that was new is we set up our data object as well as our layer object and our data
object is where inside of a list we're going to pass in our particular pluck call.
And then inside that plot call we can pass in parameters such as what x value should be what why value
should be what mode to choose and the different string values that are possible for most here.
You can check out in the scatter documentation and then you can dive even deeper into a lot of these
plot calls.
But Pesi in dictionaries for other parameters such as defining what the markers actually going to look
like.
And as you get deeper and deeper into this it can become tricky to read which is why the poly documentation
prefers passing in dictionaries with this sort of the icy Torcall.
OK.
So after we've done our data parameter for scroll down we went ahead and to find a layout and layout
it's going to refer things as far as the layout of the plot.
Things like your title where X X is going to be called what font your y axis should have.
Things of that nature.
And because things like x axis and y axis can have even further customization of parameters like the
color or the font or what it's actually going to say.
That's why we passen dictionaries like this.
And like I mention if you're going to try and edit the color or title and the font all at once of this
y axis what it actually is saying then it might make more sense to use the t call as far as readability
is concerned.
Then we took our data and our layout may pass them into this go figure.
And then we pass them that figure into the plot and we read ahead and then we have scatter H.M..
OK.
I know that's definitely a lot to take in.
So if it seems like we've done a huge jump in difficulty Don't fret don't worry we're going to do now
is continue on learning about other different plot types and we're going to keep reinforcing these ideas
of setting up your data and setting up your layout.
So I know this kind of a big jump in difficulty but we're going to keep reinforcing these ideas as we
learn about the different plot types what you should be concerned with right now is just having an understanding
of OK I set up my data.
I set up my layout.
I passed into a figure object.
And then I plot that for your object.
If you're comfortable with that so far then you're good to continue on.
OK I'll see at the next lecture.